Hello everyone, friends, subscribers,
viewers, let's start such an indefinite marathon with you.
I'm switching to
Ukrainian, many of you write in the
comments.
I'm shy, I'm worried,
don't be afraid, let's do something like this,
each of you who decided to consciously switch
to the Ukrainian language can record a
short video
for 10 seconds, 20 for 30
seconds, and so on, in order to
motivate others to switch to
Ukrainian, record it, for example, after
the aggression began, I
decided  switch to Ukrainian Yes, it
is difficult for me now, but I already
feel more free there. I already
communicate with my wife and children, for example, in
Ukrainian. I already try to
communicate in Ukrainian
in the store.
you think that they themselves are the only ones
who decided to move like that and they don't like it  it is sad for them,
it is difficult for them, they need support when
millions of our compatriots will
see, oh look, so many people are not
afraid and do not worry about the fact that it
will be difficult, it will somehow not
look like that, so it will provide them with
enormous support, and more and more people
will switch to Ukrainian and  you
will feel like
a part of a huge, huge
community of gentle Ukrainization, I
will tell you about my personal experience, yes
, that word again, yes, a
parasite, we need to get rid of it in
2002, sometime in 2002. I switched to the Ukrainian
language.
to transfer to a
school not because of my place I was transferred to a
Ukrainian-speaking school for the fourth grade from the 5th
grade I passed the
exams to the lyceum I transferred to the lyceum and there,
too, for the most part it was like this with disorganized
Russian-speaking teachers, it was some kind of
environment, it was like that in the
9-10-11th grade, I returned  In Ukraine,
I had a school, but for the most part,
they also communicated with friends at home
in Siysk Yes, we were all divorced,
although our parents,
grandparents, and grandparents were all
Ukrainian-speaking. Yes, but this young
generation, due to Russification, was already coming from
Russia
, we had Ukrainian
in the lower grades, I remember in the third
grade there were two lessons a week, how do you know
how  foreign That's how she taught us, everything else was
taught in Russian and that's how we were taught in
Russian in the course somewhere else
Yes, I got in touch with the very cool
national-patriotic communities of
my city so again this word so you need to
know the marathon on
Ukrainization and the marathon how to get rid of
parasite words  but I have already started to
control it
and I made a decision for myself that I
consciously switch to the full
use of the Ukrainian language, the first three
months were a little fragile. You spoke
in such words, it seemed to you, but
it somehow does not sound like that, and this is,
let's say, wrong, and somewhere you
made a mistake  and you thought to yourself, oh my God, maybe something
is wrong, but for this you have to score everything and
move forward somewhere in six months, a year,
some  people asked about you having such a
beautiful Ukrainian language, you are probably from
Lviv,
that's why my friends, subscribers, viewers of everyone
who wants to switch to the Ukrainian language, don't be
ashamed, don't be ashamed of yourself, it's a matter of
habit. So you will speak for six months, a year, and
you will chirp like a nightingale that
you will be alone  to wonder
what Russian words are. Now I'm damned, how is it in
Russian, will you remember them if you
already communicate in Ukrainian, so
encourage your friends to switch to
Ukrainian, send them this video, maybe
it will help them Maybe they will write down
their video and say everything Me and my cat and
my dog ​​Sirko decided  to switch to
Ukrainian and from now on we will try to
communicate in Ukrainian, someone will record a
video and tell how he is
, I have been trying to switch to Ukrainian for a month, how
difficult it is for him to slip somewhere, but he is
moving forward, nothing is
impossible, it is not Chinese for us
and not some other difficult language there, Hungarian there
with
26  -ma cases, for example I, if I'm not
mistaken, it's very, very simple six months
and in  And you will not notice how cool
your Ukrainian has become and how
natural it is. And you will be proud of the fact
that you have regained the memory of your ancestors,
because our grandfathers, great-grandfathers spoke this
language, so the country of Israel was
revived from nothingness, so the Hebrew language was created
because those Jews who  lived in
all other territories and in Europe they did not
communicate with this language, they had a
different language, for example, those who lived in the
territory of
present-day Ukraine, yes, they
communicated in the Yiddish language, this was the language,
if I am not mistaken,
related to the Romance Germanic So
it is more
similar to German than to  some families of
languages, or is that the correct name?
But they
revived the language and now I communicate, the
state is functioning fully and
there is nothing to worry about. It is not the same, and we
must do everything so that in
two or three years there will be a full-fledged Ukrainian-speaking space in our state,
because your
Ukrainian  it's not just you, it's a whole market of
books, television,
let's say cartoons and the
more speakers there are, etc  the more competitive it
will be because the publisher will look at it.
And it is profitable to publish
books in Ukrainian and the number of Ukrainian books will
increase, not because there will be any
state subsidy, but because there is a market, there is a
demand. We must all switch to
Ukrainian. You cannot kill Putin now,
you cannot.  you can now
destroy the air base in Engels, yes, personally,
but you can take a small step, a big step in the
information war, switch to
Ukrainian.
So, write down vidos, this will not be an
indefinite campaign
for us.  to show these
people, you who recorded these videos, your
sincere smiles, your sincere feelings, so
someone will say, Cool, I
switched to Ukrainian, and someone will
say,
I decided to come and I will see your
feelings, but these are your living emotions, you are
all alive, people, each individuality, you
do not owe yourself  should not be
ashamed of their emotions and their experiences
B  and must live to the fullest,
share with the whole world your experience of
Ukrainization
Glory to Ukraine